In the last lecture we configured our forum here we added some controlled by placing Engy model on the
inputs.
Now let's make this form submittal so that we can actually see what the user entered.
For this I'll go to my app component.
I already do have a method here which you will use later.
Let's ignore it for now and I'll add a new method on submit maybe this ship is triggered whenever this
form is submitted by the user in on submit.
I want to output whatever the user entered.
Well first of all we need to call this method.
So back in the template how can we call on submit.
Now you might think that a good place would be on a click on this button here at the bottom right because
it is just a button we click when we want to submit the form.
However this is not the best place to do it.
Keep in mind that this part of type submit.
So if we click it as it is placed inside of our HMO form element something else will happen.
The default behavior of HVM L will be triggered to use to call it like this.
If you have a button in a form element this button will submit the form will send the request normally.
But besides that it will also trigger a javascript event.
Do you submit event that's built into javascript built into him.
All you could say angular takes advantage of this and gives us a directive.
We can place on this form element as a whole.
It is called Engy submit and it actually only gives us one event we can listen to.
So let's wrap it in parentheses.
This event made it will by the end submit directive will be fired when ever this form is submitted.
So what ever does default behavior is triggered.
And here we can call on submit like this and to show you that this works.
I will simply go into and submit and log submitted here.
Just like that.
Now if we save this and let it recompile Let's go back and let's open up the developer tools and if
I now had the submit button you see submitted you're on the right.
Because indeed the form gets submitted.
Now it would be nice to see the actual values of the form though to see that form object and to see
it we have to go back to our template because where in the template driven approach.
So as a rule of thumb everything you do you do it in the template everything you want to change about
this form you want to add on as functionality.
You do it in a template on this form object.
We want to get access to the form created by angler.
Now you'll learn about local reference that you can place on aged hemol elements to get access to them.
So we could place hash tag on the form element and now we could access this form element on wildy f
reference in our template and we could pass f as an argument to the on Zammit method and print that
there.
So now we know that we get the form.
And actually this will be of Taieb element ref as we learned.
So if we import element ref and make this type element referer and we output the form here.
So this element we now go back to this and hit submit.
Yeah we did see the form object we see some strange Klaas's hearable compact them but that's not what
we want.
It's not a javascript object created by angular But this object a stare we just need to know how to
get to it and there actually is a trick you could call it but but it's no trick it's a default way to
get access to is automatically created object.
You set this local reference equal to something.
Now we haven't done that yet but we cancel it equal to something X-post biters.
For me.
Keep in mind the form element is kind of a selector for a directive built into angler which will create
a javascript object automatically and then it will expose some data we can fetch here on this form element
we can get access to it by writing Engy form here between the quotation marks.
So this might look super strange but what does the index is.
It tells angular hey please give me access to this form you created automatically.
That's just something you have to keep in mind.
This is how you get access to the form to this javascript object created by dangler automatically.
So therefore here where we get is form we now still pass it.
Now this will no longer be a element ref So let's remove this type here instead.
This will now be of energy for him.
So let's import energy form from an angular forms and kind of makes sense that it is of type energy
form because that is what we're accessing here.
This automatically created for him.
Now it's printed to the console one more time and let's actually enter something into these fields to
see that it worked.
If now type submit here you see that now we get the energy form object object which we certainly didn't
create.
And there we have a lot of properties.
We'll have a close look at those later.
We also do have a value property.
And if we expand this we indeed see a couple of key value pairs here where we have the names of the
controls so the names we set up here and the name attribute like user name and email.
We find them here.
And then the values the user entered.
And this is how we can submit such a form and how we can all get access to the Form object to redeploy
angular.
We also see that our set of controls also work.